[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Amy Peirce.
And at PwC,
I'm lucky enough to use advanced data and
analytics to bring insights
to our clients every day.
In this video, we're going to
talk about data visualization.
Data and analytics is all about
bringing client challenges to life so
we can overcome them by taking data,
whether structured or unstructured and
turning it into usable information and
insights.
All the sophisticated data and
analytics in the world won't matter
if it can't be consumed by an end user or
decision maker.
Think about the data and
analytics framework that we talked
about earlier in the course.
Once you gather the data and
perform your analysis,
you need to be able to present that data
in a way that make sense to your end user.
In other words,
you have to visualize the data.
Let's start with a basic
principle of data visualization.
Take a look at the table on the screen,
how many numbers are greater than one?
Do you have it?
Now tell me how many numbers
are greater than one.
Visualization doesn't have to be complex.
In fact, visualization is all about
making complex insights simple.
Simply highlighting the numbers
greater than one helped you solve
the problem quickly.
And that's data
visualization in a nutshell,
the presentation of data in a pictorial or
graphical format.
We illustrate data with graphics and
communicate information clearly and
effectively to users.
It's nothing new.
For centuries, people have depended on
visual representations such as charts and
maps to understand information
more easily and quickly.
As more and
more data is collected and analyzed,
decision makers at all levels of the
organization welcome data visualization
software that enables them to see
analytical results presented visually.
It helps them to find relevance
among millions of variables,
communicate concepts and hypothesis to
others, and even predict the future.
Visualization is important because the
brain processes visual information faster.
Users can spot patterns or trends which
are not obvious in a flat structure.
Information can be
interpreted by any audience.
Decision making is faster and cheaper.
Simply put, data visualization is just
a technique that helps everyone see and
understand the analysis that is going on.
For example,
let's say you want look through customer
behaviors based on their location.
You would have to go through tables and
tables of customer segments to identify
different behaviors by zip codes.
It would take a lot of time to sort
through all that analysis and data.
If you plot that data on a map and
pinpoint stores or
locations where specific customer
behaviors are occurring, you can use this
to develop strategies that attract
specific customers to specific locations.
You can now take that map into a meeting
with your client and show him or
her where all their stores are overlaid
with the data on their customers.
And you're able to tell a story that
will allow your client to adjust their
business strategy.
We're seeing that data and
analytics today is underpinning
every kind of business challenge.
Being able to visualize data allows
you to present an analysis so
that anyone can understand
what the information means.
In the next couple of videos you'll
get to see some examples of how we
use data visualization tools to
solve real business problems.
[MUSIC]